well it seems like the electric car has
arrived with no longer stuck in science
fiction books are in the distant future
it's here and now likes renault fluence
ze zero emission all-electric vehicle
from Renault which is going on sale in
Paris this very year how does it handle
costs how does it drive well that's what
we're going to find out right now unlike
other pure electric cars the fluency
looks like a regular car you can't even
make out that it's actually 13
centimeters longer than the regular
fluence sure there are a few different
touches like the chrome highlights on
the grill
the rear tail lamps also get a mass
effect with LEDs for syfy look it's when
you get under the skin that you'll see a
lot of cables and an alien looking motor
where the engine would normally be the
single motor takes care of propulsion on
the outside there is a charging point
for this motor for added convenience
however the ze buyer will have to
compromise on boot space because there's
a hefty 22 kilowatt hour battery pack
eating into the otherwise huge boot
luckily you don't have to make any
compromises inside the cabin it is
properly spacious but how does the
fluence ze dry well it's quite
straightforward like an automatic
gearbox you put your right foot on the
brake pedal and you do the same as to
start a traditional car you have a green
light you have the small noise to tell
you something happen right now the car
is ready to go drive position remove the
unbreak and here we go
what's unnerving is the silence it takes
some getting used to suddenly everything
seems a lot noisier like the tires the
wind and even the sound of the kingdom
later as I drove around it was evident
that there was ample performance on tap
but how's that possible after all the
flu and ze bass 200 kilos more than the
fluence and it has only 95 bhp of power
from its electric motor well it's all
because it's got twenty three point four
kilograms a talk that makes progress
effortless renault claims a real world
driving range of 160 kilometers but it
is take the driving mode needed two
months in the red zone or use the
electric compressor driven air
conditioning system the range will
surely draw however to increase driving
range the brakes keep topping up the
batteries every time you break actually
the regeneration process starts as soon
as you lift off the accelerator and
start slowing the car down as a result
the fluence doesn't cause down the road
like a normal car would the additional
weight in the blue + Z has affected the
ride quality while on smooth roads it
still feels blind and comfortable over
rougher roads over bumps and potholes it
does feel a bit lumpy and runs through
it all on the driving front the light
steering makes it easy to steer around
though there isn't much by way of
feedback or involvement
however what makes the blue and z truly
a landmark electric car is its
flexibility normal day the battery pack
can be recharged to the regular electric
plug points at home in six to eight
hours if you install a special charging
system the batteries can be completely
charged in 30 minutes as well but the
coolest and the most interesting option
is the quick drop system in this the car
is driven through an electric cars
equivalent of a petrol pump once in the
specified way a mechanized system rises
from a chamber under the ground it
unfastens the depleted battery pack from
underneath and replaces it with a fully
charged battery pack
you
the switch takes about the same time as
getting a tank of gas
so the only problem that would remain in
this is the cost of the batteries
however renault has found a way around
that to make the price very attractive
the kiosk will be price at the same let
price level than the gasoline car the
only difference is that the battery who
believe the battery least good for the
fluence would cost 79 euros in Europe
per month apart from reducing the impact
on the environment renault claim that
the fluence ze will be more affordable
for the user as well with the current
systems who lobbies to take an average
of 12,000 kilometers per year you will
have a cost which will be twenty percent
less then cuz we won well the flu and z
it is a credible alternative to gasoline
engine cars or diesel engine cars off
today because it has a decent commuting
range of 160 kilometers under ideal
conditions of course but that will still
be more than enough for most people for
the daily commute and the second aspect
the biggest aspect according to me has
been cost and a big chunk of that has
been taken out by Renault because you no
longer by the batteries the most
expensive part of an electric car Uli's
them so on a cost and a yearly ownership
basis you can actually save money buying
electric car so you're going to be
asking where is this coming to India
right well it's going to be a long time
because it's going to need
infrastructure and governmental support
for the people here in Europe this is a
very good option to cleaner greener
future